Hyper Text Transfer Protocol - 
    An established set of rules for everyone to follow to make sure devices communicate correctly with each other. Allows a request to be made to a server and communciate back and forth.

URL - 
    Human readible address of resources available on the internet. www.google.com URL for google.

DNS - 
    Domain name service, translates human readible URL to computer readible. Handles so we can use human readible words as addresses for the web

Query String - 
    information sent to the server to get specific resources, a string of instructions on what to pull from the library and render on screen. What is sent along with the URL to get specific. 

what are two HTTP verbs and how are they different. Get and Post. 
    Get 
        will get information and not change anything on the server, no side effects.
    Post 
        will send additional information in body of post and either update or create something on server, has side effects.

HTTP request 
    is a request for a specific resource on a server. It includes
    Method
    HTTP protocol version
    Resource URL wanted
    Headers
        hostname
        date
        language
        cookies
        more...

HTTP response
    is what the server sends back to your request
    HTTP protocol version
    Status code; 200 ok, 300 redirect, 404 your not where you should be, 500 servers toast or internal problems
    Headers 
        Content type
        Date/Time
        cookies
        Cache
        more...

HTTP Headers
    Specific details to use to fulfill the request / post / verb. 
    Language, date and time, hostname, caching info, etc.

What are the processes that happen when you type http://somesite.com/some/page.html
    Too many to list,

    DNS changes somesite.com into an IP address, 
    connects to that IP address on a specific port,
    using the specified protocol HTTP 
    sends a request to somesite.com asking for  /some/page.html
    query string specifies exactly what is being asked for at resource
    a response is sent back with the specific resources that were requested
    other requests are made to all the various resource locations
    other responses come in and then 
    the languages are translated and rendered by your browser
    